Blog Submission (#238)
cncf/tag-env-sustainability: website/content/blog/Embracing-Edge-Computing-with-Kepler.md

> # Embracing Edge Computing with Kepler: A Dive into Remote Monitoring, Centralized Dashboarding, and Visualization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
title: Embracing Edge Computing with Kepler: A Dive into Remote Monitoring, Centralized Dashboarding, and Visualization
description: Kepler enables remote monitoring, centralized dashboarding, and visualization of energy consumption, revolutionizing energy observability.
slug: 2023-embracing-edge-computing-with-kepler
weight: 1
date:   2023-10-09 10:00:00 +0000
author: Parul Singh
---

```

The header is missing. Next to the title, we also need to add a description. I added a description, but please use any description you think works best!

In the ever-evolving landscape of technology, edge computing has emerged as a game-changer, enabling real-time data processing closer to the data source. Kepler, with its integration with OpenTelemetry (OTEL), has paved the way for exploring remote monitoring and centralized dashboarding options at the edge. This revolutionary approach offers invaluable insights into equipment and workload power consumption, making it a pivotal shift in the realm of energy observability.

## Remote Monitoring Revolutionized

> Kepler metrics provide comprehensive insights into power consumption, empowering users with detailed analytics. The migration from Prometheus to OTLP exporter streamlines the process, eliminating the heavy Prometheus-based monitoring stack. Kepler’s OTLP exporters, operational on edge devices, facilitate centralized metric collection, ushering in a new era of efficient power and energy monitoring.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kepler metrics provide comprehensive insights into power consumption, empowering users with detailed analytics. The migration from Prometheus to OTLP exporter streamlines the process by eliminating the heavy Prometheus-based monitoring stack. Kepler’s OTLP exporters which are operational on edge devices, facilitate centralized metric collection and usher in a new era of efficient power and energy monitoring.
```

## The Power of Centralized Dashboarding

> Centralized dashboarding emerges as a cornerstone of this paradigm shift. With edge devices operational in various locations, having a centralized dashboard becomes indispensable. It offers a unified view of all the monitored parameters, ensuring seamless monitoring and identifying major power consuming workloads and/or devices. Centralized dashboarding ensures that insights into equipment and workload power consumption are readily accessible, enabling timely decision-making and proactive issue resolution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Centralized dashboarding is a cornerstone of this paradigm shift. With edge devices operational in various locations, having a centralized dashboard becomes indispensable. It offers a unified view of all the monitored parameters, ensuring seamless monitoring and identifying major power consuming workloads and/or devices. Centralized dashboarding ensures that insights into equipment and workload power consumption are readily accessible, enabling timely decision-making and proactive issue resolution.
```

## The Power of OpenTelemetry

Embracing OpenTelemetry isn't just a trend; it's a necessity. This open standard for observability ensures vendor-neutral instrumentation, collection, and export of telemetry data. OpenTelemetry's flexibility, consistency, and growing ecosystem, coupled with support from major observability vendors, position it as the go-to choice for modern applications.

> ![Alt text](../../static/images/blogs/2023-09-cloud-native-sustainability-week/KEPLER-OTEL.png)

Reviewer: We may want to add some short explanatory text next to the diagram. WDYT?

## Kepler’s Architectural Brilliance

Kepler’s architecture captures pod/container/processes level metrics efficiently. The OTEL collector acts as the intermediary, processing and routing data to destinations. Leveraging Prometheus as a backend, coupled with Grafana's prowess, transforms raw data into meaningful visualizations. This synergy offers a seamless experience, enabling users to comprehend complex data effortlessly.

In conclusion, Kepler together with OpenTelemetry and its focus on edge computing mark a significant leap in the power monitoring landscape.

> Reference: Hybrid Cloud Patterns

Reviewer: Are we missing a link here?

> *Note: Follow [link](https://github.com/husky-parul/otel-observability) for the deployment steps. Stay tuned for more updates on [Kepler OTEL SDK instrumentation](https://github.com/sustainable-computing-io/kepler/issues/659).*

Reviewer: We may want to bake this in the conclusion. At the moment it's a bit separate (some information after the conclusion).

---
title: Embracing Edge Computing with Kepler - A Dive into Remote Monitoring, Centralized Dashboarding, and Visualization
description: Kepler enables remote monitoring, centralized dashboarding, and visualization of energy consumption, revolutionizing energy observability at edge.
slug: 2023-embracing-edge-computing-with-kepler
weight: 1
date:   2023-10-09 10:00:00 +0000
author: Parul Singh
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Community guest post as part of the [cloud native sustainability week](https://tag-env-sustainability.cncf.io/cloud-native-sustainability-week/)*
```
On the TAG ENV blog we need to highlight if a blog is from the TAG directly (an artifact from a WG for example)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

 *Guest post as part of the [cloud native sustainability week](https://tag-env-sustainability.cncf.io/cloud-native-sustainability-week/)*
 ```
